temperatureareslightly underestimatedby the real-timeprogram;this is a characteristicof the real-time
model which wasfound for all validation cases.Outputtorque,station3 staticpressure,andtemperature
responsesarein good agreement.
         Low power engineperformanceis shownin figure 10, which representsa decreasein fuel flow
to below-idlepower. Gasgeneratordynamicsareaccuratelyrepresented.Otherreal-timemodeloutputs
display a slightly different dynamiccharacteristic,althoughzerotorqueis reachedfor both simulations
at approximatelythe sametime. The real-time model is initially lessresponsive. Under a simplifying
assumption,the real-time heat-sinkmodel constantswere madeindependentof the direction of power
change.Additional sophisticationof the heat-sinkrepresentationmay bewarranted.
         Closed-looppropulsionsystemresponsewasvalidatedby incorporatingtheengineandfuel control
systeminto the real-timeGenHel UH-60A helicoptersimulation.The NASA-Amesversionof this simu-
lation is detailedin reference13.This simulationcontainsa real-timeblade-elementmainrotor system,a
Bailey-typetail rotor model,anda rigid-shaftdrive train model with simplifiedrepresentationsof acces-
sorypower requirements.A time stepof 14msecwasused;this is a typical value for real-timeexecution
of the blade-elementrotor. In orderto meetthe cycling requirementsof the iteration model,the T700
programwas updatedtwice for eachrotor routinecycle, or onceevery7 msec.The power-turbine-speed
degreeof freedomcorrespondsto thatof thedrive train androtor hub,andwasthereforeupdatedevery 14
msec.Flight testdataobtainedfromreference14wasusedfor correlation.Thisdataconsistsof single-axis
control inputsto a vehiclewith all stabilityaugmentationdisabled.The amplitudesof theinputsaresmall,
 typically not morethan 15percentof the controltravel.
         The correlationof secondaryeffectssuchaspropulsionsystemresponsedependson adequatecor-
 relationof the vehicleandrotor systemresponses  with the testdata. Althoughtheblade-elementhelicopter
 simulationis consideredto be a high-fidelity model,differencesdo exist which arereflectedin tile engine
 andfuel-control-systemresponses.For all comparisons,the modelconfigurationandtestconditionswere
 setup tomatchthoseof the flight tests.Time historiesof thetest-aircraftcontrolinputswereusedasdirect
 inputsto thesimulation.Constantbiaseswereaddedto thecontrolinputsto correctfor smalldiscrepancies
 betweenthe testaircraft andthe simulationtrim positions.Thereforethe simulationbeginseachtransient
 responsein trim andthe incrementalchangein a controlinput is identicalto thatof the flight test.Details
 of the simulationcomparisonwith theflight testsaregiven in reference13.
         An exampleof a single-axiscollective input at high forward speedis shown in figure 11. The
 aircraft at a light grossweight wastrimmedat anequivalentairspeedof 90kts. Collectivetrim is in good
 agreementwith thatof the flight test. Powerrequiredby the aircraft is thereforecorrectly representedby
 the vehiclesimulation.The outputtorqueof bothelaginesis shownby the secondplot in the figure;this is
 in goodagreementwith testdatafor the initial trim. The trendsdisplayedby therotor speedtime histories
 arecorrect. The datasuggestthatthe test aircraft containsgreaterload demandcompensationthan the
 simulation,however,resultingin lessrotor speeddroop after the initial input. Gasgeneratorspeedand
 outputtorquetime historiesarealsomoreresponsiveto the initial input. After the input, the testvehicle
 andsimulationtime historiesdivergedin pitch, with the vehiclereachinga 6-degreenose-upattitudeat6
 seconds,while thesimulaticuachieveda 2-degreenose-upattitude.Theresultof this is a rapidly-changing,
 mainrotor required-torquewhich preventsthe testvehiclefrom regainingthe trim rotor speed.
         Figure 12 showssystemresponseto a lateral cyclic control input at anairspeedof 55 knots. The
 lateralcyclic trim positionis in goodagreementwith the test,while the collectivetrim positionis slightly
 higherin the simulation. The enginetorqueis thereforehigher. Again, a divergencein pitch attitude
 betweenthe simulationandtestdatapreventsa direct comparisonat theendof the run. More rotor-speed
 droop is seenin the testdatain responseto the initial left cyclic input. The torque,gasgeneratorturbine

                                                  33
